The U.S. Congress directed USDA’s Farm Service Agency to provide farmers and ranchers with online access to all data that FSA stored regarding the land and crops of more than four million farms. Although tabular data was already available online through downloadable documents, the agency needed end-user research to determine the most effective solution. I conducted focus group sessions with farmers at field offices and discovered that farmers didn’t want or use the current documents, but rather regularly asked the county office personnel to print custom maps of their tracks and fields.

This early research led us toward developing a map-based interface based entirely on the physical layout of their farms. I worked with project owners and business analysts by providing simple sketches to quickly illustrate competing ideas and concepts. As requirements were solidified, I created low-fi wireframes to confirm critical content and layout for the application. As workflows were identified, I built detailed interaction designs to illustrate each function of the application and to demonstrate an information architecture that best matched the user’s mental model. For map-based interactions, I collaborated with Angular developers to ensure that the design intent worked within the technical constraints of the SPA framework. Higher-fidelity designs added additional features and content, but I remained committed to keeping the interface clean, intuitive, and focused on the user’s primary tasks. 

Once the interactive prototype was complete, I scripted and conducted a detailed usability study, presented findings to key stakeholders, and iterated the design based on user feedback. I also delivered production-ready, responsive, accessible HTML/CSS/jQuery to SPA developers for use in Angular views. 

As a result of a user-centered design process, farmers and ranchers were able to reduce trips to county offices, county office personnel saved time and labor, federal requirements were satisfied, and a foundation was laid for future customer-focused applications and online services.
